MIGRATING.md, before:

# Migrating (to TypeScript) Cheatsheet

This Cheatsheet collates advice and utilities from real case studies of teams moving significant codebases from plain JS or Flow over to TypeScript. It makes no attempt to _convince_ people to do so, but we do collect what few statistics companies offer up after their conversion experience.

> ⚠️ This Cheatsheet is extremely new and could use all the help we can get. Solid advice, results, and up to date content all welcome.

## General Conversion approaches

- Level 0: Don't use TypeScript, use JSDoc
  - See our [JSDoc section](#JSDoc)
- Level 1: Unstrict TypeScript
  - `"noImplicitAny": false`
  - "[Just rename all .js files to .ts](https://twitter.com/jamonholmgren/status/1089241726303199232)"
  - installing all missing typings with [types-installer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/types-installer)
  - consider using `allowJS`? (Source: [clayallsop][clayallsop], [pleo][pleo])
- Level 2: Strict TypeScript
  - use Microsoft's [`dts-gen`](https://github.com/Microsoft/dts-gen) to generate `.d.ts` files for your untyped files. [This SO answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12687779/how-do-you-produce-a-d-ts-typings-definition-file-from-an-existing-javascript) has more on the topic.
  - use `declare` keyword for ambient declarations
  

Misc tips/approaches successful companies have taken

- `@ts-ignore` on compiler errors for libraries with no typedefs
- pick ESLint over TSLint ([source](https://eslint.org/blog/2019/01/future-typescript-eslint))
- New code must always be written in TypeScript. No exceptions. For existing code: If your task requires you to change JavaScript code, you need to rewrite it. (Source: [Hootsuite][hootsuite])


<details>
<summary>
<b>
Webpack tips
</b>
</summary>

- webpack loader: `awesome-typescript-loader` vs `ts-loader`? (there is some disagreement in community about this)
- Webpack config:

```
module.exports = {

resolve: {
-    extensions: ['.js', '.jsx']
+    extensions: ['.ts', '.tsx', '.js', '.jsx']
},

// Source maps support ('inline-source-map' also works)
devtool: 'source-map',

// Add the loader for .ts files.
module: {
  loaders: [{
-       test: /\.jsx?$/,
-       loader: 'babel-loader',
-       exclude: [/node_modules/],
+       test: /\.(t|j)sx?$/,
+       loader: ['awesome-typescript-loader?module=es6'],
+       exclude: [/node_modules/]
+   }, {
+       test: /\.js$/,
+       loader: 'source-map-loader',
+       enforce: 'pre'
  }]
}
};
```

</details>

## JSDoc

- https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/JsDoc-support-in-JavaScript
- webpack's codebase uses JSDoc with linting by TS https://twitter.com/TheLarkInn/status/984479953927327744 (some crazy hack: https://twitter.com/thelarkinn/status/996475530944823296)

Problems to be aware of:

- `object` is converted to `any` for some reason.
- If you have an error in the jsdoc, you get no warning/error. TS just silently doesn't type annotate the function.
- [casting can be verbose](https://twitter.com/bahmutov/status/1089229349637754880)

(*thanks [Gil Tayar](https://twitter.com/giltayar/status/1089228919260221441) and [Gleb Bahmutov](https://twitter.com/bahmutov/status/1089229196247908353) for sharing above commentary*)

## From JS

the "Just Renaming" strategy

- OSX/Linux: `find src -name "*.js" -exec sh -c 'mv"$0" "${0%.js}.tsx"' {} \;`


More resources

- [TypeScript's official Guide for migrating from JS](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/migrating-from-javascript.html)
- [Migrating a `create-react-app`/`react-scripts` app to TypeScript](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/adding-typescript) - don't use `react-scripts-ts`
- [Migrating an EJECTED CRA app to TS](https://spin.atomicobject.com/2018/07/04/migrating-cra-typescript/)
- [Lyft's JS to TS migration tool](https://github.com/lyft/react-javascript-to-typescript-transform) (includes PropTypes migration)
- [Hootsuite][hootsuite]
- [Storybook's migration (PR)](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook/issues/5030)
- [How we migrated a 200K+ LOC project to TypeScript and survived to tell the story][coherentlabs] - Coherent Labs - using `grunt-ts`, jQuery and Kendo UI

Old content that is possibly out of date

- [Incrementally Migrating JS to TS][clayallsop] (old)
- [Microsoft's TypeScript React Conversion Guide][mstsreactconversionguide] (old)

## From Flow

- Try flow2ts: `npx flow2ts` - doesn't work 100% but saves some time ([see this and other tips from @braposo](https://github.com/sw-yx/react-typescript-cheatsheet/pull/79#issuecomment-458227322) at TravelRepublic)
- [Incremental Migration to TypeScript on a Flowtype codebase][entria] at Entria
- [Jest's migration (PR)](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/7554#issuecomment-454358729)
- [Expo's migration (issue)](https://github.com/expo/expo/issues/2164)
- [Atlassian's migration (PR)](https://github.com/atlassian/react-beautiful-dnd/issues/982)
- [Yarn's migration (issue)](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/6953)
- [MemSQL's Studio's migration](https://davidgom.es/porting-30k-lines-of-code-from-flow-to-typescript/) - blogpost with many useful tips

## Results

- Number of production deploys doubled for [Hootsuite][hootsuite]
- Found accidental globals for [Tiny][tiny]
- Found incorrect function calls for [Tiny][tiny]
- Found rarely used, buggy code that was untested for [Tiny][tiny]

## Misc writeups by notable companies

- [Lyft](https://eng.lyft.com/typescript-at-lyft-64f0702346ea)
- [Google](http://neugierig.org/software/blog/2018/09/typescript-at-google.html)
- [Tiny][tiny] - [Talk from ForwardJS here](https://www.slideshare.net/tiny/porting-100k-lines-of-code-to-typescript)
- [Slack](https://slack.engineering/typescript-at-slack-a81307fa288d)

## Links

[hootsuite]: https://medium.com/hootsuite-engineering/thoughts-on-migrating-to-typescript-5e1a04288202 'Thoughts on migrating to TypeScript'
[clayallsop]: https://medium.com/@clayallsopp/incrementally-migrating-javascript-to-typescript-565020e49c88 'Incrementally Migrating JavaScript to TypeScript'
[pleo]: https://medium.com/pleo/migrating-a-babel-project-to-typescript-af6cd0b451f4 'Migrating a Babel project to TypeScript'
[mstsreactconversionguide]: https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-React-Conversion-Guide 'TypeScript React Conversion Guide'
[entria]: https://medium.com/entria/incremental-migration-to-typescript-on-a-flowtype-codebase-515f6490d92d 'Incremental Migration to TypeScript on a Flowtype codebase'
[coherentlabs]: https://hashnode.com/post/how-we-migrated-a-200k-loc-project-to-typescript-and-survived-to-tell-the-story-ciyzhikcc0001y253w00n11yb 'How we migrated a 200K+ LOC project to TypeScript and survived to tell the story'
[tiny]: https://go.tiny.cloud/blog/benefits-of-gradual-strong-typing-in-javascript/ 'Benefits of gradual strong typing in JavaScript'

Commit message:

improve the conversion approaches notes abit. still not great :(

MIGRATING.md, after:

# Migrating (to TypeScript) Cheatsheet

This Cheatsheet collates advice and utilities from real case studies of teams moving significant codebases from plain JS or Flow over to TypeScript. It makes no attempt to _convince_ people to do so, but we do collect what few statistics companies offer up after their conversion experience.

> ⚠️ This Cheatsheet is extremely new and could use all the help we can get. Solid advice, results, and up to date content all welcome.

## Prerequsite

Read [TypeScript's official Guide for migrating from JS](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/migrating-from-javascript.html) and you should already be familiar with their [React conversion guide](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-React-Conversion-Guide#typescript-react-conversion-guide).

## General Conversion approaches

- Level 0: Don't use TypeScript, use JSDoc
  - See our [JSDoc section](#JSDoc)
- Level 1A: Majority JavaScript, increasingly strict TypeScript
  - as recommended by [official TS guide](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/migrating-from-javascript.html)
  - use `allowJS` (Experiences: [clayallsop][clayallsop], [pleo][pleo])
- Level 1B: Total rename to TypeScript from the start
  - "[Just rename all .js files to .ts](https://twitter.com/jamonholmgren/status/1089241726303199232)"?
  - use the loosest, bare minimum settings to start with
- Level 2: Strict TypeScript
  - use Microsoft's [`dts-gen`](https://github.com/Microsoft/dts-gen) to generate `.d.ts` files for your untyped files. [This SO answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12687779/how-do-you-produce-a-d-ts-typings-definition-file-from-an-existing-javascript) has more on the topic.
  - use `declare` keyword for ambient declarations - see [declaration merging](https://github.com/sw-yx/react-typescript-cheatsheet#troubleshooting-handbook-bugs-in-official-typings) to patch library declarations inline

Misc tips/approaches successful companies have taken

- `@ts-ignore` on compiler errors for libraries with no typedefs
- pick ESLint over TSLint (source: [ESLint](https://eslint.org/blog/2019/01/future-typescript-eslint) and [TS Roadmap](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/29288))
- New code must always be written in TypeScript. No exceptions. For existing code: If your task requires you to change JavaScript code, you need to rewrite it. (Source: [Hootsuite][hootsuite])


<details>
<summary>
<b>
Webpack tips
</b>
</summary>

- webpack loader: `awesome-typescript-loader` vs `ts-loader`? (there is some disagreement in community about this - but read [awesome's point of view](https://github.com/s-panferov/awesome-typescript-loader#differences-between-ts-loader))
- Webpack config:

```
module.exports = {

resolve: {
-    extensions: ['.js', '.jsx']
+    extensions: ['.ts', '.tsx', '.js', '.jsx']
},

// Source maps support ('inline-source-map' also works)
devtool: 'source-map',

// Add the loader for .ts files.
module: {
  loaders: [{
-       test: /\.jsx?$/,
-       loader: 'babel-loader',
-       exclude: [/node_modules/],
+       test: /\.(t|j)sx?$/,
+       loader: ['awesome-typescript-loader?module=es6'],
+       exclude: [/node_modules/]
+   }, {
+       test: /\.js$/,
+       loader: 'source-map-loader',
+       enforce: 'pre'
  }]
}
};
```

Special note on `ts-loader` and 3rd party libraries: https://twitter.com/acemarke/status/1091150384184229888

</details>

## JSDoc

- https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/JsDoc-support-in-JavaScript
- webpack's codebase uses JSDoc with linting by TS https://twitter.com/TheLarkInn/status/984479953927327744 (some crazy hack: https://twitter.com/thelarkinn/status/996475530944823296)

Problems to be aware of:

- `object` is converted to `any` for some reason.
- If you have an error in the jsdoc, you get no warning/error. TS just silently doesn't type annotate the function.
- [casting can be verbose](https://twitter.com/bahmutov/status/1089229349637754880)

(*thanks [Gil Tayar](https://twitter.com/giltayar/status/1089228919260221441) and [Gleb Bahmutov](https://twitter.com/bahmutov/status/1089229196247908353) for sharing above commentary*)

## From JS

the "Just Renaming" strategy

- OSX/Linux: `find src -name "*.js" -exec sh -c 'mv"$0" "${0%.js}.tsx"' {} \;`


More resources

- [Migrating a `create-react-app`/`react-scripts` app to TypeScript](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/adding-typescript) - don't use `react-scripts-ts`
- [Migrating an EJECTED CRA app to TS](https://spin.atomicobject.com/2018/07/04/migrating-cra-typescript/)
- [Lyft's JS to TS migration tool](https://github.com/lyft/react-javascript-to-typescript-transform) (includes PropTypes migration)
- [Hootsuite][hootsuite]
- [Storybook's migration (PR)](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook/issues/5030)
- [How we migrated a 200K+ LOC project to TypeScript and survived to tell the story][coherentlabs] - Coherent Labs - using `grunt-ts`, jQuery and Kendo UI

Old content that is possibly out of date

- [Incrementally Migrating JS to TS][clayallsop] (old)
- [Microsoft's TypeScript React Conversion Guide][mstsreactconversionguide] (old)

## From Flow

- Try flow2ts: `npx flow2ts` - doesn't work 100% but saves some time ([see this and other tips from @braposo](https://github.com/sw-yx/react-typescript-cheatsheet/pull/79#issuecomment-458227322) at TravelRepublic)
- [Incremental Migration to TypeScript on a Flowtype codebase][entria] at Entria
- [Jest's migration (PR)](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/7554#issuecomment-454358729)
- [Expo's migration (issue)](https://github.com/expo/expo/issues/2164)
- [Atlassian's migration (PR)](https://github.com/atlassian/react-beautiful-dnd/issues/982)
- [Yarn's migration (issue)](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/6953)
- [MemSQL's Studio's migration](https://davidgom.es/porting-30k-lines-of-code-from-flow-to-typescript/) - blogpost with many useful tips

## Results

- Number of production deploys doubled for [Hootsuite][hootsuite]
- Found accidental globals for [Tiny][tiny]
- Found incorrect function calls for [Tiny][tiny]
- Found rarely used, buggy code that was untested for [Tiny][tiny]

## Misc writeups by notable companies

- [Lyft](https://eng.lyft.com/typescript-at-lyft-64f0702346ea)
- [Google](http://neugierig.org/software/blog/2018/09/typescript-at-google.html)
- [Tiny][tiny] - [Talk from ForwardJS here](https://www.slideshare.net/tiny/porting-100k-lines-of-code-to-typescript)
- [Slack](https://slack.engineering/typescript-at-slack-a81307fa288d)

## Links

[hootsuite]: https://medium.com/hootsuite-engineering/thoughts-on-migrating-to-typescript-5e1a04288202 'Thoughts on migrating to TypeScript'
[clayallsop]: https://medium.com/@clayallsopp/incrementally-migrating-javascript-to-typescript-565020e49c88 'Incrementally Migrating JavaScript to TypeScript'
[pleo]: https://medium.com/pleo/migrating-a-babel-project-to-typescript-af6cd0b451f4 'Migrating a Babel project to TypeScript'
[mstsreactconversionguide]: https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-React-Conversion-Guide 'TypeScript React Conversion Guide'
[entria]: https://medium.com/entria/incremental-migration-to-typescript-on-a-flowtype-codebase-515f6490d92d 'Incremental Migration to TypeScript on a Flowtype codebase'
[coherentlabs]: https://hashnode.com/post/how-we-migrated-a-200k-loc-project-to-typescript-and-survived-to-tell-the-story-ciyzhikcc0001y253w00n11yb 'How we migrated a 200K+ LOC project to TypeScript and survived to tell the story'
[tiny]: https://go.tiny.cloud/blog/benefits-of-gradual-strong-typing-in-javascript/ 'Benefits of gradual strong typing in JavaScript'
