docs/advanced/types-react-ap.md, before:

---
id: types_react_api
title: "Section 4: @types/react and @types/react-dom APIs"
sidebar_label: "@types/react and @types/react-dom APIs"
---

The `@types` typings export both "public" types meant for your use as well as "private" types that are for internal use.

Check [SaltyCrane's React TypeScript Cheatsheet](https://github.com/saltycrane/typescript-cheatsheet) for a nice autogenerated complete reference.

## `@types/react`

[Link to `.d.ts`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/master/types/react/index.d.ts)

**Namespace: React**

Most Commonly Used Interfaces and Types

- `ReactNode` - anything that is renderable _inside_ of JSX, this is NOT the same as what can be rendered by a component!
- `Component` - base class of all class-based components
- `PureComponent` - base class for all class-based optimized components
- `FC`, `FunctionComponent` - a complete interface for function components, often used to type external components instead of typing your own
- `CSSProperties` - used to type style objects
- all events: used to type event handlers
- all event handlers: used to type event handlers
- all consts: `Children`, `Fragment`, ... are all public and reflect the React runtime namespace

Not Commonly Used but Good to know

- `Ref` - used to type `innerRef`
- `ElementType` - used for higher order components or operations on components
- `ComponentType` - used for higher order components where you don't specifically deal with the intrinsic components
- `ReactPortal` - used if you specifically need to type a prop as a portal, otherwise it is part of `ReactNode`
- `ComponentClass` - a complete interface for the produced constructor function of a class declaration that extends `Component`, often used to type external components instead of typing your own
- `JSXElementConstructor` - anything that TypeScript considers to be a valid thing that can go into the opening tag of a JSX expression
- `ComponentProps` - props of a component
- `ComponentPropsWithRef` - props of a component where if it is a class-based component it will replace the `ref` prop with its own instance type
- `ComponentPropsWithoutRef` - props of a component without its `ref` prop
- all methods: `createElement`, `cloneElement`, ... are all public and reflect the React runtime API

[@Ferdaber's note](https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet/pull/69): I discourage the use of most `...Element` types because of how black-boxy `JSX.Element` is. You should almost always assume that anything produced by `React.createElement` is the base type `React.ReactElement`.

**Namespace: JSX**

- `Element` - the type of any JSX expression
- `LibraryManagedAttributes` - It specifies other places where JSX elements can declare and initialize property types. Used to resolve static `defaultProps` and `propTypes` with the internal props type of a component.
- `IntrinsicElements` - every possible built-in component that can be typed in as a lowercase tag name in JSX

Not commonly used but good to know

- `IntrinsicAttributes` set of attributes that all `IntrinsicElements` support... basically just `key`.
- `ElementChildrenAttribute` name of property that TS looks at to figure out what types of children a component supports. Basically the `children` property
- `ElementAttributesProperty` name of property that TS looks at to figure out what attributes a component supports. Basically the `props` property (for a class instance)

**Don't use/Internal/Deprecated**

Anything not listed above is considered an internal type and not public. If you're not sure you can check out the source of `@types/react`. The types are annotated accordingly.

- `SFCElement`
- `SFC`
- `ComponentState`
- `LegacyRef`
- `StatelessComponent`
- `ReactType`

### Adding non-standard attributes

The attributes allowed on host components such as `button` or `img` follow the
HTML living standard. New features that are not yet part of specification
or are only implemented by certain browsers will therefore cause a type error. If
you specifically write code for these browsers or polyfill this attributes you can
use [module augmentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-merging.html#module-augmentation) to still get those components type checked without having
to use `any` or `@ts-ignore`.

In this example we'll add the [`loading`](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5645767347798016) attribute which adds support for [lazy-loading](https://web.dev/native-lazy-loading) images on Chrome:

```ts
// react-unstable-attributes.d.ts
import "react";

declare module "react" {
  interface ImgHTMLAttributes<T> extends HTMLAttributes<T> {
    loading?: "auto" | "eager" | "lazy";
  }
}
```

## `@types/react-dom`

To be written

Commit message:

add more notes on @types/react exports (#266)
Co-authored-by: Sebastian Silbermann <silbermann.sebastian@gmail.com>

docs/advanced/types-react-ap.md, after:

---
id: types_react_api
title: "Section 4: @types/react and @types/react-dom APIs"
sidebar_label: "@types/react and @types/react-dom APIs"
---

The `@types` typings export both "public" types meant for your use as well as "private" types that are for internal use.

Check [SaltyCrane's React TypeScript Cheatsheet](https://github.com/saltycrane/typescript-cheatsheet) for a nice autogenerated complete reference.

## `@types/react`

[Link to `.d.ts`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/master/types/react/index.d.ts)

**Namespace: React**

Most Commonly Used Interfaces and Types

- `ReactNode` - anything that is renderable _inside_ of JSX, this is NOT the same as what can be rendered by a component!
- `Component` - base class of all class-based components
- `PureComponent` - base class for all class-based optimized components
- `FC`, `FunctionComponent` - a complete interface for function components, often used to type external components instead of typing your own
- `CSSProperties` - used to type style objects
- all events: used to type event handlers
- all event handlers: used to type event handlers
- all consts: `Children`, `Fragment`, ... are all public and reflect the React runtime namespace

Not Commonly Used but Good to know

- `Ref` - used to type `innerRef`
- `ElementType` - used for higher order components or operations on components
- `ReactElement` - [can be used if you want to pass it to `cloneElement`](https://www.reddit.com/r/reactjs/comments/ia8sdi/any_other_typescript_users_constantly_confused/g1npahe/) aka it's pretty rarely used
- `ComponentType` - used for higher order components where you don't specifically deal with the intrinsic components
- `ReactPortal` - used if you specifically need to type a prop as a portal, otherwise it is part of `ReactNode`
- `ComponentClass` - a complete interface for the produced constructor function of a class declaration that extends `Component`, often used to type external components instead of typing your own
- `JSXElementConstructor` - anything that TypeScript considers to be a valid thing that can go into the opening tag of a JSX expression
- `ComponentProps` - props of a component
- `ComponentPropsWithRef` - props of a component where if it is a class-based component it will replace the `ref` prop with its own instance type
- `ComponentPropsWithoutRef` - props of a component without its `ref` prop
- all methods: `createElement`, `cloneElement`, ... are all public and reflect the React runtime API

[@Ferdaber's note](https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet/pull/69): I discourage the use of most `...Element` types because of how black-boxy `JSX.Element` is. You should almost always assume that anything produced by `React.createElement` is the base type `React.ReactElement`.

**Namespace: JSX**

- `Element` - the type of any JSX expression. You should ideally never need to see or use this, but you do because of [a limitation of TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/21699).
- `LibraryManagedAttributes` - It specifies other places where JSX elements can declare and initialize property types. Used to resolve static `defaultProps` and `propTypes` with the internal props type of a component.
- `IntrinsicElements` - every possible built-in component that can be typed in as a lowercase tag name in JSX

Not commonly used but good to know

- `IntrinsicAttributes` set of attributes that all `IntrinsicElements` support... basically just `key`.
- `ElementChildrenAttribute` name of property that TS looks at to figure out what types of children a component supports. Basically the `children` property
- `ElementAttributesProperty` name of property that TS looks at to figure out what attributes a component supports. Basically the `props` property (for a class instance)

**Don't use/Internal/Deprecated**

Anything not listed above is considered an internal type and not public. If you're not sure you can check out the source of `@types/react`. The types are annotated accordingly.

- `SFCElement`
- `SFC`
- `ComponentState`
- `LegacyRef`
- `StatelessComponent`
- `ReactType`

### Adding non-standard attributes

The attributes allowed on host components such as `button` or `img` follow the
HTML living standard. New features that are not yet part of specification
or are only implemented by certain browsers will therefore cause a type error. If
you specifically write code for these browsers or polyfill this attributes you can
use [module augmentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-merging.html#module-augmentation) to still get those components type checked without having
to use `any` or `@ts-ignore`.

In this example we'll add the [`loading`](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5645767347798016) attribute which adds support for [lazy-loading](https://web.dev/native-lazy-loading) images on Chrome:

```ts
// react-unstable-attributes.d.ts
import "react";

declare module "react" {
  interface ImgHTMLAttributes<T> extends HTMLAttributes<T> {
    loading?: "auto" | "eager" | "lazy";
  }
}
```

## `@types/react-dom`

To be written
